Added new docs: ELK to Signoz Migration (#1407)
SigNoz/signoz.io: data/docs/migration/migrate-from-elk.mdx

---
date: 2025-05-06
id: migrate-from-elk
title: Migrate from ELK Stack
description: Migrating from ELK Stack to SigNoz. How to migrate metrics, traces, and logs from Elasticsearch, Logstash, and Kibana to SigNoz.
---

> SigNoz provides a unified OpenTelemetry native solution for monitoring metrics, traces, and logs, offering a modern alternative with greater flexibility and control over your data compared to the traditional ELK stack. This guide will walk you through the steps to migrate your existing ELK stack (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana, potentially with Elastic APM) setup to SigNoz, covering all essential signals: metrics, traces, and logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SigNoz provides a unified [OpenTelemetry](https://signoz.io/why-opentelemetry/) (OTel) native solution for monitoring metrics, traces, and logs, offering a modern alternative with greater flexibility and control over your data compared to the traditional ELK stack. This guide will walk you through the steps to migrate your existing ELK stack (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana, potentially with Elastic APM) setup to SigNoz, covering all essential signals: metrics, traces, and logs.
```

Two things to keep in mind:
- When using abbreviation for a word, always mention it in ( ) when you use the word for the first time
- We should assume that the user coming to the doc won't know about OpenTelemetry, so always hyperlink to the relevant doc/blog from SigNoz/OTel website

## Why Migrate to SigNoz?

While the ELK stack has been a popular choice, migrating to SigNoz offers several advantages:

> -   **Unified Platform**: Instead of managing multiple complex components like Elasticsearch clusters, Logstash pipelines, and Kibana, SigNoz provides a single, cohesive platform for all your observability needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **Unified Platform**: SigNoz provides a single, cohesive platform that eliminates the complexity of managing multiple components such as Elasticsearch clusters, Logstash pipelines, and Kibana.
```

> -   **Native OpenTelemetry Support**: Built from the ground up to support OpenTelemetry, ensuring seamless integration with modern instrumentation standards and future-proof observability. ELK requires adapters or specific agents (like Elastic APM) that may not be purely OTel-native.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **Native OpenTelemetry Support**: Built from the ground up to support OpenTelemetry, ensuring seamless integration with modern instrumentation standards and future-proof observability. ELK requires adapters or specific agents (like Elastic APM) that may not be purely OTel native.
```

> -   **Simplified Operations**: Single installation and upgrade process reduces the operational overhead and complexity associated with managing and scaling individual ELK components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **Simplified Operations**: Simple installation and upgrade process reduces the operational overhead and complexity associated with managing and scaling individual ELK components.
```

-   **Integrated Signals**: SigNoz correlates logs, metrics, and traces out-of-the-box, providing a more seamless debugging experience compared to correlating data across Kibana and potentially separate APM UIs.
-   **Resource Efficiency**: SigNoz often requires fewer resources compared to a similarly scaled Elasticsearch cluster, potentially lowering infrastructure costs.

> -   **Consistent User Experience**: Unified UI for all observability signals without context switching between different tools or UIs (like Kibana for logs/dashboards and a separate APM UI for traces).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Covered in other points.

## Migration Guides

> Please refer to the following guides for step-by-step instructions on migrating each aspect from your ELK Stack setup to SigNoz:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please refer to the following guides for instructions on migrating different signals from your ELK Stack setup to SigNoz:
```

Reviewer: @hionnode

> -   [Migrating Metrics](https://signoz.io/docs/migration/migrate-from-elk/metrics) - Transfer your metrics collection (e.g., from Metricbeat/Elasticsearch)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   [Metrics](https://signoz.io/docs/migration/migrate-from-elk/metrics) 
```

> -   [Migrating Traces](https://signoz.io/docs/migration/migrate-from-elk/traces) - Move your distributed traces (e.g., from Elastic APM)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   [Traces](https://signoz.io/docs/migration/migrate-from-elk/traces)
```

> -   [Migrating Logs](https://signoz.io/docs/migration/migrate-from-elk/logs) - Transition your logs from Logstash/Elasticsearch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   [Logs](https://signoz.io/docs/migration/migrate-from-elk/logs)
```

> -   [Migrating Dashboards](https://signoz.io/docs/migration/migrate-from-elk/dashboards) - Convert your Kibana dashboards

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   [Dashboards](https://signoz.io/docs/migration/migrate-from-elk/dashboards) 
```

> -   [Migrating Alerts](https://signoz.io/docs/migration/migrate-from-elk/alerts) - Transfer your alerting rules (e.g., from ElastAlert/Kibana alerting)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   [Alerts](https://signoz.io/docs/migration/migrate-from-elk/alerts)
```
